Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain a Post Apocalyptic Horror film
called “28 Days Later,” Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
The movie begins with a group of radical animal
rights activists storming into a laboratory. The
lab has held different species of chimpanzees
in captivity for medical research. The radical
activists proceed to free the animals but a lab
staffer warns the group against it, alleging the
animals are infected with a highly infectious Rage
virus. However, the animal rights activists do not
heed his advice and start releasing the chimps.
Lo and behold, as soon as the chimps are released,
they violently start attacking everyone
in the lab, infecting them in the process.
The lab staffer tries killing the infected but
it's too late and he easily gets overpowered.
The infection spreads rapidly through the
activists and turns them into uncontrollable
monsters in a matter of 20 seconds.
The movie then fast forwards to 28 days in
the future. A man named Jim wakes up in a hospital
bed. As he gets up from his bed and looks around,
he realises that the hospital is deserted and
trashed. All phone lines are dead. He grabs
some beverage and heads out only to realise that
the entire city of London is deserted and seems
like it underwent some sort of catastrophe much
like the hospital. He wanders through the city,
hoping to find other people. He comes across
a church, where a large group of people have
gathered. He calls out for them but only to get
chased by people who seem to have turned into
raging monsters. They follow Jim into the streets
until he runs into two survivors, Selena and Mark.
The duo throw DIY petrol bombs at the raging
monsters, setting them on fire. They then finish
the monsters off by using explosives and lead
Jim into their hideout: a shop in the London
underground. It is revealed that Jim is a bicycle
courier who met with an accident and went into
a coma. While he was in coma, the Rage virus
uncontrollably spread throughout the country,
turning people into violent monsters and resulting
in a societal collapse. There’s no radio,
electricity, TV, government, army, police and
all that’s left for consumption is candies
and canned soft drinks. Selena speculates
that the catastrophe has gone global.
The revelation alarms Jim and he insists on
finding his parents. Selena and Mark try to advise
him against it but eventually relent and accompany
him to his parent’s home the next morning.
Much like the entire city, Jim’s home seems
haunted. He finds his parents’ dead bodies
in their room. They seem to have commited suicide
together and have left a final note for him. Jim
breaks into tears after reading the note.
Due to safety reasons, the trio decide to spend
the night in Jim’s home and sleep in the same
room. The thoughts of his parents don't let Jim
sleep. As Selena and Mark peacefully sleep,
Jim looks at his mother’s handwriting
and old home videos. Suddenly, two monsters break
into his home from the window and attack him like
raging maniacs. Selena and Mark quickly wake
up and come to Jim’s rescue and the monsters
are quickly neutralised. Jim survives without
injury but Mark is bleeding from the fight.
Fearing a possible infection,
Selena quickly knocks Mark down
and hacks him to death with a machete
as Jim watches in horror.
Selena decides to immediately leave for the store,
fearing more possible attacks. Jim is shaken by
Mark’s murder but Selena explains to him that
the virus spreads through contaminated blood,
overtaking the victims in matter of seconds
and making them raging violent monsters.
She believes that just being alive is enough
and the end justifies the means. She warns
him that if he ever gets infected,
she would kill him “in a heartbeat”.
As they head to the store, they come across
Christmas lights blinking in an apartment
in a high-rise building in an otherwise dark and
desolate city. They get hopeful of finding other
survivors and go to investigate. They take the
stairs to the apartment but half way through their
journey, Jim suffers from fatigue and extreme
headache, possibly due to hunger. She proceeds
to pass him painkillers and a drink but suddenly
they hear sounds of infected people climbing the
stairs. Panicking, the duo run upstairs and run
into a man in police riot gear. The man directs
the pair to his apartment while he blocks the
infected. The infected try to get past him but
the man manages to neutralise them. The man then
welcomes the two to their apartment and introduces
himself as Frank. He lives with his teenage
daughter Hannah. He offers them some wine and
turns off the battery run christmas lights.
Selena and Jim spend the night at Frank’s flat and
privately discuss whether they should stay with
them. Jim believes that they are good people but
Selena thinks that they will slow them down and
she would leave them behind “in a heartbeat”. She
warns Jim that putting others above one’s survival
is a guaranteed way of getting killed.
The next morning, Frank and Jim check the water
they have left. The situation isn’t looking
good as it has not rained in days and Frank
believes they won’t be able to survive for long,
holed up in the apartment. He then shows Jim
and Selena a recording of a radio broadcast
transmitted by soldiers. The soldiers stationed
near Manchester claim to have found the “answer to
the infection” and are calling survivors to come
find them. Frank suggests they head to Manchester.
Selena initially hesitates but eventually agrees.
The group then heads out in Frank’s car.
During their journey, they come across a
tunnel. Jim is skeptical of passing through
a dark tunnel but Frank and Selena veto
him and head into the tunnel. The tunnel
is blocked by a pile of car debris and Frank
drives over it, resulting in a flat tire.
Jim’s worst fear comes true and the group hears
a bunch of infected people running towards them.
Frank and others team up and frantically
change the tire and manage to escape on
time. After travelling some distance, they stop
to stock up food and other essential supplies.
They also fill up a large jerry can
with fuel for their long journey.
The group spends the night in a
pastoral field and have dinner together.
After spending time with Frank and his daughter,
Selena’s opinion about life begins to change.
She admits to Jim that just being alive
isn’t enough and there’s more to life.
Afraid of being attacked, Jim and Hannah have
a hard time falling asleep while Selena easily
dozes off. Jim wakes her up and asks her to share
her secret. Selena passes them pills she takes to
fall asleep. She reveals that she is a qualified
chemist and the pills are safe. Jim and Hannah
take one each and fall asleep while Frank stays
up to watch out for the infected monsters.
The next morning, they continue their journey.
After driving for hours, they reach a blockade.
They also notice fires engulfing Manchester in
the distance. To their dismay, they learn that the
blockade is deserted. Selena suggests they should
return home but Frank isn’t ready to give up.
He looks around for soldiers but eventually loses
hope. He starts getting agitated and screams at
others in frustration. A cawing crow feeding on an
infected soldier’s corpse adds to his frustration.
Frank kicks on the tin wall and tries to ward
off the bird but a drop of contaminated blood
lands into his eyes instead. Realizing that he
has been infected, Frank tells his daughter to
keep away from him. But Hannah only grows
worried and walks towards him as the virus
begins to take over Frank’s body. Selena quickly
stops Hannah while Frank is shot dead by soldiers
hidden behind the blockade. It turns out
the blockade isn’t deserted after all.
The soldiers take the three survivors
and their car to a fortified mansion.
They are greeted by Major Henry West who is
commanding the soldiers. The trio take showers
and change into clean clothes. Frank’s death
and its impact on Hannah affects Selena who
had grown close to both over the past few days.
Frank comforts Selena and they start developing
romantic feelings for each other.
Jim later talks to West about the “answer
to infection” they were promised in the army
broadcast. West assures him that it may not be
what he had imagined but they do have an answer.
The mansion is surrounded by high perimeter walls
and the surrounding ground has been laced with
tripwires and landmines. They use wood fire to
get hot water and cook food. West is also counting
on the infected people to starve to death.
He has even kept an infected soldier
named Mailer chained in the mansion
to study the effects of the virus.
Everyone then gathers for dinner. As people
eat whatever the soldier cook has managed to
put together, West has disagreements with his
sergeant Farrell over post-infection life.
After dinner, West takes Jim for a drink. West
gives him a lecture about survival before
revealing that he had promised to “provide women”
to his soldiers. The soldiers aren’t
just waiting for the infected to die,
they also plan to survive by forcing
sexual servitude on the female survivors.
Alarmed by the revelation, Jim attempts to
flee with Selena and Hannah. Sergeant Farrell
tries to help them but unfortunately
the soldiers easily capture them and
lock Farrell and Jim in a room.
While imprisoned, Farrell speculates
that the virus must not have spread beyond
British borders. He points out that the
virus takes over one’s body so fast that
it would be impossible for the infected to
flee the island and spread the disease.
The following day, two soldiers take Farrell
and Jim into the woods to execute them. When
one of the soldiers named Jones hesitates to
shoot his sergeant, the other soldier shoots
Farrell for him. This angers Jones and he fights
with the other soldier while Jim runs off. He
crosses over the wall and manages to get away.
On the other side, he notices the contrails of
a plane flying overhead and becomes hopeful.
Meanwhile, Selena and Hannah are
ordered by West to become “presentable”
to serve the soldiers and are taken to a
washroom. Selena convinces the soldiers
to give her some time to prepare Hannah.
Suddenly, the sirens start going off. The West
learns that Jim had managed to flee and heads
out to hunt him with one of his soldiers.
Jim ambushes the soldier near the blockade and
kills him. He then steals his gun and runs back
to the mansion. At the headquarters, Jim releases
the infected soldier Mailer from captivity.
Mailer attacks the soldiers and the two girls
manage to flee but Selena gets captured by
another soldier. Mailer’s bite creates another
monster and they start attacking other soldiers.
Jim also takes out a soldier and looks for the
girls as West returns. Jim violently kills the
soldier who has held Selena hostage as she watches
in horror. Fearing that he might be infected,
Selena grabs her machete and proceeds to strike
him but can’t bring herself to go through with it.
Jim tells her that “That was longer than a
heartbeat.” Selena drops the machete and the
two passionately make out. Hannah finds them and
the three then rush to Frank’s car. However, West,
who was waiting for them in the passenger
seat, shoots Jim in the stomach. Angered,
Hannah drives the car and delivers West to the
infected soldier. Mailer drags West out and
Hannah drives away with Selena and Jim.
Selena and Hannah take Jim to a deserted
hospital. Selena performs a life-saving
operation on Jim and another 28 days pass.
Jim gains consciousness in a remote cottage,
recovered from his injuries. In another room,
he finds Selena sewing together
a large piece of cloth.
Suddenly, Hannah comes barging in, yelling,
“It’s coming!”. The three grab the fabric and
rush outside in a hurry. It is revealed that it
is a large cloth banner reading the word “HELLO”.
A jet flies by and notices the SOS signal
as the trio look optimistically.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.